What is your full name? Helen Lewis John. Do we have permission to record this interview?
Yes. Where and when were you born? Swansea in 1932. How did you meet Father Paul Sartore?
I received a letter in 1979 from a friend of my aunt Nels. I took it to work because I didn't have
time to open it and when I read the letter I was shocked and upset as Frances was because she
assumed that I had known about my auntie Nel dying and being buried and the fact that auntie Nel was
a very staunch Catholic and the fact that she had just been buried without the Eucharist, the Requiem Mass,
that upset us very much, both of us. So the person I spoke with at work was a Catholic and attended the church
in Haverford West. So she took me down in our break to seek Father Sartore. So I showed him the letter and I did
explain to him that I was now a lapsed Catholic. There was no sense, he wasn't judgmental at all, he didn't
criticise or anything. He was very, very sympathetic, very, very kind and he said, I'll do my best to find out what happened
and I'll speak with you in a few days' time. Which he did. He actually rang his brother in Swansea who was also a priest
and he got the information from him and then when he rang me again he said that because I was no longer a Catholic,
he wasn't allowed to give me a service in the church but he arranged for me to go to the little convent in Haverford West
and the mother superior there conducted the service and it was lovely. It made me, gave me the courage to say goodbye to my auntie Nel
who I loved dearly.
So was that your earliest memory of Father Paul Sartore?
Yes.
Did you ever meet him afterwards?
No, unfortunately.
How would you describe him as a person? I know if you only met him once but what did he come across as?
He came across as a very kind, outgoing person and I would think, I don't know, that he would have had a lovely sense of humour.
Can you think of, do you have any other stories of Father Sartore or did you have any other connection with him? Was it just that one incident?
That was just that one incident. But when the hospice was founded I made a donation, I got a direct debit and I make a monthly donation to the foundation.
I feel that's all I can do to say thank you to him.
That's marvellous.